# OpenRefine has a reflected cross-site scripting vulnerability (XSS) from POST request in ExportRowsCommand

**GHSA**: GHSA-79jv-5226-783f | **CVE**: CVE-2024-47880 | **Severity**: high (CVSS 8.1)

**CWE**: CWE-79, CWE-348

**Affected Packages**:
- **org.openrefine:openrefine** (maven): < 3.8.3

## Description

### Summary

The `export-rows` command can be used in such a way that it reflects part of the request verbatim, with a Content-Type header also taken from the request.

An attacker could lead a user to a malicious page that submits a form POST that contains  embedded JavaScript code. This code would then be included in the response, along with an attacker-controlled `Content-Type` header, and so potentially executed in the victim's browser as if it was part of OpenRefine.

The attacker must know a valid project ID of a project that contains at least one row.

### Details

The malicious form sets `contentType` to `text/html` (ExportRowsCommand.java line 101) and `preview` to `true` (line 107). This combination causes the browser to treat what OpenRefine thinks of as an export preview as a regular webpage.

It would be safer if the `export-rows` command did not allow overriding the Content-Type header at all, instead relying on the exporter to provide the correct Content-Type. It could also require a CSRF token. As an additional measure, it could add a Content-Security-Policy header to the response disabling scripts and such entirely.

At least the CSV exporter (`separator` and `lineSeparator` fields) and templating exporter (any field) are affected. It may also be possible to inject into the `dateSettings.custom` field or the SQL exporter default value field, if the project contains date or null cells.

### PoC

An example form that demonstrates the issue is available on https://wandernauta.nl/os/.

### Impact

Execution of arbitrary JavaScript in the user's browser. The attacker-provided code can do anything the user can do, including deleting projects, retrieving database passwords, or executing arbitrary Jython or Closure expressions, if those extensions are also present.
